# Connect-Outpatient-Using-IoT
The Internet of Things (IoT) is becoming a norm in the current IT industry and it’s going to be a part of our daily life. The healthcare industry is the largest beneficiary from the IoT as a large number of medical devices are getting connected to the Internet. Many companies are spending huge amount of resources to connect healthcare industry with IoT.  

Currently, many people face severe consequences as they are not able to take lifesaving actions on time. According to research data over 600,000 people die due to heart disease and heart attacks each year in the United States. 911 Emergencies offer quick service in emergencies, but even it takes around 10 minutes to reach a patient. Sometimes people don’t even have sufficient time or a third person to inform 911. Also, many people cannot afford hefty healthcare costs. This scenario can be improved by integrating IoT in healthcare. There are many medical devices and applications which are available in the market, but often they fail to address this combined issue.

We are planning to offer better solution by integrating our application with existing IoT devices. Our solution will guide outpatient to follow doctor’s instructions while they are taking treatment at home. Through big data analytics, it will also send emergency notifications to related doctors, relatives and 911 emergencies. In this way, we are planning to improve communication channel with reduced healthcare cost.

Advances in information and technology communication have progressed enough to enable electronic exchange of health data between electronic devices and through cloud. The exchange of health information through cloud facilitates prevention of emergency situations and gives an easy access to the data. A robust health system will improve our ability to transform health data into knowledge and utilize the knowledge to analyze hidden patterns of health related data. 

Our product will give the solution by analyzing patterns of health related data, by sending emergency alerts to healthcare facilities and by remotely guiding outpatient to the doctor’s instructions. Health information exchange in ‘Connect Outpatient’ is based on the following core areas- data distribution among related authorities, performance improvement by quick response, leverage available IoT devices, security and privacy of health data. 

Our main goal is of restructuring existing relation of patient-doctor. Our product will provide sustainable platform for outpatients and doctors to always stay connected to each other by real-time tracking of outpatients’ health data. In healthcare, privacy is of utmost importance and we will use modern tools and advanced encryption techniques to secure patient’s data.

Today, mobile is ubiquitous and we will take advantage of availability of mobiles through our mobile application. IoT device worn by outpatient will connect with their mobile device. Using our pattern recognition technique, mobile application will recognize fluctuating heart rate of outpatient. It will alert doctors and emergency services of pattern changes of outpatient’s health. As, we will save patient’s data on the cloud, any doctor who is authorized to view health data can access it. Hence, our proposed system will help in bridging the gaps between healthcare facilities and outpatients by integrating them with each other.

##[Project URL](http://deepmehtait.github.io/Connect-Outpatient-Using-IoT/)
